Hey welcome back.
So we've seen how to define a function that accepts inputs and spits something out turns in output using
the return keyword.
Now what I want to do is just showcase two common mistakes that are made when using the return keyword.
So first up I have an example function called some odd numbers and the expected behavior that I want
when I pass in a list or a range any sort of iterable collection.
And we'll just assume it's full of numbers.
What I want to happen is that I want it to loop through and for every odd number in there added together.
So if I called some odd numbers with this list I would want one plus three plus five plus seven.
So that should give us what is at 16.
And so that's what we expect.
We expect 16 to come back and then the simple walk through the behavior is we start with the total variable
set are equal to zero.
We loop through each number in numbers and we check.
Is that number odd if it is we add it to total.
And then at the end we return total.
But if we actually run this let's see what happens.
We get one.
So what what's happening.
One is supposed to be you know added to total and not returning total.
But what about all the rest where is 3 and 5 and 7 being added in the total.
And this is a really really simple mistake to make especially in Python because it's just a matter of
indentation.
What happens is that because this return is inside of this loop the first time through the loop so we
run we run through it.
In this example for Nahm and numbers we start off with numbers equal to 1.
We check.
Is it even or odd.
And if it is odd We'll add it to total.
So this line runs but then this line also runs because it's in the loop and it just says all right whatever
total is right now.
Return it.
And that ends execution of the loop and of the function entirely.
Remember that return will quit the function out and we're done.
So what we do instead is dented here.
And what happens now is the loop continues to run and it finishes running and then only after the loop
is done we return total.
So let's try it out.
And now we get 16.
OK.
So let me leave both examples here.
Down here I'll put the old version just like that and come it out.
Okay.
So that's the first problem that you might encounter is returning too soon and that can happen in you
know a conditional or in a loop can happen all over the place.
So just be aware of your indentation.
So the second type of commonly made mistake when using the return keyword is not so much a mistake you
know the last one actually broke the functionality of our code it didn't do what we wanted.
This one is more just.
It's just about making things cleaner and and removing unnecessary code.
So what this function does it's called is odd number and we should be able to pass in.
Let's do it for.
And then we'll do nine.
And it should return false for this one because 4 is not odd it's even and 9:20 it should return true.
It's just a simple conditional check if number is divisible by or it's not divisible by 2 returned true.
Otherwise return false.
OK.
So if we run it now we get false and true.
And the behavior is how we're supposed to work.
But what I want to show you is that this else right here is actually unnecessary.
So what happens is we go through with let's say Nahm is nine if numb.
So numb mod 2 9 made 2 is not equal to zero.
And we return trip but this time if we pass in two if this part is false we can just return false right
here just like this.
There's only two options.
So if we return true the rest of the code doesn't even execute.
We don't need the else because this just ends the function.
And the only way to get return false is if this is already false.
So when you are returning boolean values like this or you're returning true or false there's no need
for an additional else and it's not only limited to this case of returning true or false but if you're
returning something at the end in the case you just don't need the else.
So I call that when the unnecessary else patent pending.
OK.
So those are just two common mistakes you can make when using the return keyword.